UNIVERSITY OF LEEDS | SCHOOL OF COMPUTING

Assessment Brief
Module title

Group Project

Module code

COMP 5530M

Assignment title

Group Project

Assignment type and
description

Game engine programming project accompanied by a report.

Rationale

The Group Project provides an opportunity for you to work on a major
computing project as part of a team. The project will further develop both
your team working/ project management skills and your technical knowledge
and skills.

Word limit and guidance

Main report: 12 pages
Appendix: 6 pages.
Video: 4 minutes
Poster: A1
Individual report: 2 pages

Weighting

100%

Submission deadline

08/05/2026

Submission method

Turnitin

Feedback provision

Turnitin, Poster Session

Learning outcomes
assessed

L01-6

Module leader

Rafael Kuffner dos Anjos

UNIVERSITY OF LEEDS | SCHOOL OF COMPUTING
1. Assignment guidance
This is your one assessment for this module.
During semester one, you will find a pair and consider a project theme.
During semester two, you will form a group, be assigned a supervisor, and carry out the project your group
has set out for yourselves.
2. Assessment tasks
The actual work will depend on the project agreed between you and your supervisor. Meet with them
regularly (suggested once every 2 weeks), where it is your responsibility to book the meeting and the room
to have it.
As a group:
Prepare a presentation of your plan for your project and the planned tasks and features for week 3.
Formative feedback will be given.
Every week during teaching time:
Submit group activities summary to Gradescope. (formative feedback)
Work on a report describing your work with a maximum of 12 pages, following the ACM article style with the
template available on Minerva.
Work on a 6 page appendix document describing your project management, following the same template.
Create a 4 minute video of your project as either a short presentation or a highlights video.
Create an A1 poster of your project for the poster session at the end of the semester.
Individually:
Work on an individual report of a maximum of 2 pages, following the ACM article style with the template
available on Minerva. This report should describe in detail a task that you were the main contributor to.
These can be either implementation or management tasks.
Submit everything by the final date.
3. General guidance and study support
Supporting information can be found on Minerva (Lecture slides and templates).
4. Assessment criteria and marking process
40% Report, 30% Project scope and deliverables
5% Poster, 5% Showcase video
Assessed by supervisor + 1 independent reviewer.
20% Individual report
Assessed by the module leader

UNIVERSITY OF LEEDS | SCHOOL OF COMPUTING
5. Presentation and referencing
Your report should be written using the provided template, which follows the standard ACM article style.
This must not be changed.
The quality of written English will be assessed in this work. As a minimum, you must ensure:
• Paragraphs are used
• There are links between and within paragraphs although these may be ineffective at times
• There are (at least) attempts at referencing
• Word choice and grammar do not seriously undermine the meaning and comprehensibility of the
argument
• Word choice and grammar are generally appropriate to an academic text
These are pass/ fail criteria. So irrespective of marks awarded elsewhere, if you do not meet these criteria,
you will fail overall.
6. Submission requirements
All files submitted to Turnitin, following the limits on the guidance.
7. Academic misconduct and plagiarism
Leeds students are part of an academic community that shares ideas and develops new ones.
You need to learn how to work with others, how to interpret and present other people's ideas, and how to
produce your own independent academic work. It is essential that you can distinguish between other
people's work and your own, and correctly acknowledge other people's work.
All students new to the University are expected to complete an online Academic Integrity tutorial and test,
and all Leeds students should ensure that they are aware of the principles of Academic integrity.
When you submit work for assessment it is expected that it will meet the University’s academic integrity
standards.
If you do not understand what these standards are, or how they apply to your work, then please ask the
module teaching staff for further guidance.
By submitting this assignment, you are confirming that the work is a true expression of your own work and
ideas and that you have given credit to others where their work has contributed to yours.
8. Assessment/ marking criteria grid
Please consult the document uploaded separately to Minerva for details.

