MARKING SCHEME COMP 5530M
GROUP REPORT: 40%
Reports are marked similarly to a paper. Not each individual section is marked, but more general aspects
of the report that cover different parts of it. The main component of the report counts for 30 marks,
and the management section counts for 10 marks.
Each individual section of the academic part of the report will be marked from 0-10. with the following
rationale:
< 5 : Failed at this aspect. Would warrant a major rewrite.
5: Barely meets the criteria for acceptance. The foundations are there, but there is much to work on.
6: They did a good job at this, but there are still many improvements that can be made.
7: They did as good a job as you could expect from them. There may still be a few possibilities for
improvement.
8: The article presents quality seen in academic publications for this aspect.
9: This would be accepted in an academic journal.
10: This would be accepted in a high tier academic journal.
SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTIONS (0)
This does not award any marks. It’s just a short description of your understanding of the project this
group has carried out. This helps both you and them understand how well the message got through.
CLARITY OF PRESENTATION (10)
This has to do with the “form” and how clearly things are communicated in the paper.
-

Does it use good quality academic writing that is clear and concise?

-

Is the method explained in enough detail?
Is it supported by high quality illustrations and example images?

-

Are the results communicated using the right type of visualization? (plots, tables, figures)

-

Is the evaluation clearly outlined and the results discussed thoroughly?

-

Is everything that needs to be explained present in the paper or are important things left out?

TECHNICAL SOUNDNESS (10)
This has to do with the “correctness” of the statements that are made.
-

Is the motivation true and relevant to the problem they are trying to address?

-

Are the statements about related work correct?

-

Are the algorithms/methods free of mistakes?

-

Are the choices of methods/tools appropriate for the problem at hand?

-

Is the project thoroughly evaluated? Are all the necessary aspects investigated?

-

Is the evaluation methodology sound?

QUALITY OF REFERENCES (10)
This has to do with the scholarly awareness of the paper.
-

Does the introduction justify this work in comparison to previous work?

-

Does the background work cover the necessary range of topics?

-

Are the references relevant and up to date?

-

Are previous works simply cited or did the authors provide a higher understanding of the
research landscape (e.g. grouping works by areas and highlighting importance and drawbacks
of each methods)?

-

Are important statements throughout the paper supported by references when appropriate?

MANAGEMENT & SOFT SKILLS (10)
This has to do with the appendix section only that talks about non academic aspects of the project
including project management, group reflection on soft skills acquired during the project.
-

How good was the initial plan for developing the project?
Did the team allocate enough time for each one of the tasks?
Is the project size suitable for the time the team had to develop it?
How strictly was the plan followed?
How well has the team adapted to unforeseen circumstances?
Was the time with the supervisor well utilized?
Has the group learned important skills to be used in the workforce?
Has the group learned skills that go beyond the taught material?
How was the group dynamic?
Was the work distributed fairly, and was there enough support from the group when one
struggled?
How well has the group communicated internally?
How well did the group utilize their supervision expertise?

PROJECT SCOPE AND DELIVERABLES 30%
This has to do with what they set out to do, and what did they achieve when compared to it. Here we do
not want to penalize “negative results”, as a method was implemented successfully, but it was worse
than the state of the art. It is a balance between level of challenge of the problem, and the level of
quality of the solution.
-

How challenging was the project?

-

How well were the objectives achieved?

-

How properly packaged are the deliverables?
Would you be able to experiment with the prototype without much hassle?
What is the technical quality of the work that was achieved?

< 15 Did not deliver something of the correct scope or technical quality expected.
15 – 17 Barely meets the minimum requirements for this scope of project. The group has a working
prototype to show addressing a suitable problem.
18 – 20 - The group achieved something of good quality, but there was much room for improvement.
21 – 23 The group has performed as well as you could have expected them to at this level. They chose a
good problem and have a good solution to it.
24 – 26 The group has tackled a challenging problem, and succeeded in developing a suitable solution
for it, or has delivered an outstanding solution to a good problem.
27 – 29 The group has tackled a very challenging problem and delivered an outstanding solution to it.
30 – The group has tackled a very challenging problem, delivered an outstanding solution to it, and this
exceeds any expectation for any student at their level at any university.
INDIVIDUAL REPORT 20%
Each individual member will submit a one page report describing one chosen task from the group
project where they were the main (or solo) contributor to. The task can be chosen amongst all tasks in
the project, and the student should pick the one that they believe will give them the best chance for
high marks. These can be implementation or management tasks.
Reports are marked in the same rubrics:
Clarity of Presentation (5), Technical Soundness (5), Task scope and Deliverables (10)

POSTER 5%
Posters are marked from 0-10 on their overall quality. They should not only be visually appealing, but
also contain a good summary of the work that has been carried out, with the main findings and method.
The poster should work as a good support for the group during their presentation in the poster session.
It should also be understandable without the support of the authors.

< 5 Fails to communicate the project in any aspect. If you read it without the group, you have no idea
what happened.
5: Provides a minimal acceptable summary of the work that was carried out.
6: Provides a decent summary of the work. You can understand clearly what was achieved. There are
still aspects of it that could be improved with the presentation or content.
7: Good quality poster. Has all the right amount of detail and exposition, and uses high quality visuals.
8: Eye-catching poster with an excellent summary of the work. Space was used very efficiently, supports
the group in a good way.
9: This is a great example of a poster that any academic should aim to have when submitting to
conferences.
10: This is a poster that should be framed and hanged in our school for years to come.
SHOWCASE VIDEO 5%
Showcase videos are marked from 0-10 on their overall quality. They should work as a standalone short
presentation of the work. While visual quality will be rewarded, the main focus is on how well it works
as a presentation.
<5 Not sufficient effort to introduce the work. Does not allow one to understand what the project was
about, or what it achieved.
5: Sufficient presentation with sufficient use of visuals to communicate about the achievements project.
Either aspect could be majorly improved.
6: Good presentation with the support of nice visuals. Clear communication about the project, with
aspects that could have been easily improved.
7: Great presentation with high quality visuals. Works well as a standalone presentation, and
compliments the report and poster with extra information that improve the understanding of the
project.
8: High quality standalone video and presentation of work, which would lead someone to look for
further details about this project.
9: Outstanding showcase video which allows even layman audiences to fully understand the project.
10: Incredible video that rivals levels of product launches from big companies or videos from top tier
academic publications.

