Hello everyone, we're excited to share Wipeout, a game engine we have been working on that allows developers to deliver exciting obby-style third-person platformers to players. We would like to take you through some of its key features. We made this game engine so that anyone can make an obby in minutes with whatever is available to them. The engine features robust asset handling. Game levels are stored as a scene within one glTF file. Developers can use our game editor blender plugin to build levels and export a glTF scene.

Objects in a Blender scene can be selected and their in-game properties can be modified. For example, users can edit an entity's type, physics collider type, or float properties. Float properties are arbitrary key-value pairs stored in a map in each entity. This allows for per-entity behavior, such as each moving platform having a different speed. These properties are exported as extras in the glTF scene file.

When a user is ready to play that level, they can press export and run in Blender and the game will launch. The engine supports many modern graphics techniques to help developers create immersive experiences for players. We have a physically based shading model, screen space reflections, screen space ambient occlusion, image based lighting and volumetric fog to create realistic and atmospheric levels.

The engine provides debug views and performance analysis metrics provided by Tracy to help resolve any graphical issues which may arise during development. The render can also easily be extended to accommodate each team's unique artistic vision.

We have an efficient animation system able to handle over 500 unique skeletal animations at once, with an animator API that lets game creators use any animation they want, with blending, looping and interpolation that enabled us to make a smoothly animated character. We use Jolt physics library to handle our collision detection and response. We have a rigidbody wrapper class which acts as an interface between our engine and the library.

You can see it in action with our physically controlled character. We have spent a large time to fine-tune the movements such as jumping, climbing and crouching. This is just an example of a larger entity system. Inspired by Unity, you can create custom entities by inheriting off of base class with a wide range of behavior, whether it be physically or changing the game state with functions like Awake, Update and OnCollision. Wipeout features an event system, or signal system, which allows for decoupled communication between entities.

Entities register themselves as receivers, and a callback is ran when a corresponding signal is received. An example of this is when a network message signals that a lever has been pulled, opening up a trapdoor for all players connected to the server. Our multiplayer system allows you to play and chat with your friends, allowing you to make your game a social, Roblox-like experience. The networking works asynchronously, smoothly updating the networked entities without interrupting the framerate. Similarly,

The simple to use load/save API we provide works in the background to keep the game state between rage quits. Our simple input API allows any kind of controller or keyboard and mouse to be used and you can play sounds in the world with the 3D audio API that we provide. We're excited for you to get your hands on our engine, get creative and make your own obby to wipe your friends out.
